docs/Examples.md, before:

# Examples

## Typical MAC operator
This code snippet defines an SDF node named `mac` and instantiates it in the top region and connected with FIFO channels.

```
dfg.operator @mac inputs(%a: i32, %b: i32)
                  outputs(%c: i32)
                  iter_args(%sum: i32)
initialize {
    %0 = arith.constant 0 : i32
    dfg.yield %0 : i32
} {
    %0 = arith.muli %a, %b : i32
    %1 = arith.addi %0, %sum : i32
    dfg.output %1 : i32
    dfg.yield %1 : i32
}
dfg.region @top inputs(%arg0: i32, %arg1: i32)
                outputs(%arg2: i32)
{
    %0:2 = dfg.channel(16) : i32
    %1:2 = dfg.channel(16) : i32

    dfg.connect.input %0#0, %arg0 : i32
    dfg.connect.input %1#0, %arg1 : i32
    dfg.connect.output %2#1, %arg2 : i32

    dfg.instantiate @mac inputs(%0#1, %1#1) 
                         outputs(%2#0) : (i32, i32) -> i32
}
```
¡¡¡ This program is not supported in the converson and translation example below due to the `iter_args`. !!!

## FFT2D operator with tensors
This code snippet defines an SDF node named `fft` and instantiates it in the top region and connected with FIFO channels. Differently from the `MAC` operator above, this operator uses tensors.

```
dfg.operator @fft inputs(%arg0: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
                        outputs(%arg2: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg3: tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
{
    %0, %1 = tosa.fft2d %arg0, %arg1 {inverse = false} : (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>) -> (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
    dfg.output %0, %1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>
}

dfg.region @top inputs(%arg0: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
                        outputs(%arg2: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg3: tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
{
    %0:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    %1:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    %2:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    %3:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>

    dfg.connect.input %arg0, %0#0 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    dfg.connect.input %arg1, %1#0 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    dfg.connect.output %arg2, %2#1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    dfg.connect.output %arg3, %3#1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>

    dfg.instantiate @tosa_test inputs(%0#1, %1#1) outputs(%2#0, %3#0) : (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>) -> (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
}
```

## Convertion and Translation for FPGA backend
To get a working FPGA design we provide a conversion pass pipeline: `--convert-to-vitis`, which will lower up-to-tosa operations to scf level along with bufferizations of tensor values. Then operations in `arith`, `index`, `math`, `scf` and `dfg` will be converted to vitis equivalent operations. The result of this pipeline will be used in translation (i.e. `--vitis-generate-project`).

Let's assume the input file is named `dfg.mlir`, to get the bitstream file one only needs to execute these commands one by one:

1. Get the files needed for this project from current program
```
dfg-opt dfg.mlir --convert-to-vitis | dfg-translate --vitis-generate-project (--output-dir=/path/you/want/ --target-device="device-name")
```
2. Set up the environmental variables
```
export XILINX_PATH=/path/to/xilinx/install/
export XILINX_VERSION=version-number
```
3. Run through shell script
```
sh /path/to/run_design.sh
```
4. Check the outputs
```
tree /path/you/specified/driver
```
The driver for PYNQ is generated under directory `/path/you/specified/driver/driver`, which goal is to let user only take care of the input data.
To set up on PYNQ in JupyterNotebook or Python file, please use the following class and methods defined in the driver:

1. class `Accelerator`: this class' initializer accepts no arguments, one can instantiate one simply use `accl = Accelerator()`. Then there will be some important information printed out.
2. method `compute`: this method accepts a list, within which you should set up the correct number of inputs based on your own-defined `dfg.region` in MLIR.
3. method `get_execution_time`: this method will return a float number, which is the execution time in seconds roughly measured using `time` package.

In this work, [AMD Vivado Design Suite](https://www.amd.com/en/products/software/adaptive-socs-and-fpgas/vivado.html) version 2024.2 is tested without any problems. If one need to use lower version of the tools, please modify the version of Xilinx IPs in [this](../lib/Target/GenerateVitisProject/GenerateVitisProject.cpp#L1170) translation respectively.

Commit message:

Rename vitis dialect to emitHLS.

docs/Examples.md, after:

# Examples

## Typical MAC operator
This code snippet defines an SDF node named `mac` and instantiates it in the top region and connected with FIFO channels.

```
dfg.operator @mac inputs(%a: i32, %b: i32)
                  outputs(%c: i32)
                  iter_args(%sum: i32)
initialize {
    %0 = arith.constant 0 : i32
    dfg.yield %0 : i32
} {
    %0 = arith.muli %a, %b : i32
    %1 = arith.addi %0, %sum : i32
    dfg.output %1 : i32
    dfg.yield %1 : i32
}
dfg.region @top inputs(%arg0: i32, %arg1: i32)
                outputs(%arg2: i32)
{
    %0:2 = dfg.channel(16) : i32
    %1:2 = dfg.channel(16) : i32

    dfg.connect.input %0#0, %arg0 : i32
    dfg.connect.input %1#0, %arg1 : i32
    dfg.connect.output %2#1, %arg2 : i32

    dfg.instantiate @mac inputs(%0#1, %1#1) 
                         outputs(%2#0) : (i32, i32) -> i32
}
```
¡¡¡ This program is not supported in the converson and translation example below due to the `iter_args`. !!!

## FFT2D operator with tensors
This code snippet defines an SDF node named `fft` and instantiates it in the top region and connected with FIFO channels. Differently from the `MAC` operator above, this operator uses tensors.

```
dfg.operator @fft inputs(%arg0: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
                        outputs(%arg2: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg3: tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
{
    %0, %1 = tosa.fft2d %arg0, %arg1 {inverse = false} : (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>) -> (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
    dfg.output %0, %1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>
}

dfg.region @top inputs(%arg0: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
                        outputs(%arg2: tensor<1x4x8xf32>, %arg3: tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
{
    %0:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    %1:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    %2:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    %3:2 = dfg.channel(16) : tensor<1x4x8xf32>

    dfg.connect.input %arg0, %0#0 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    dfg.connect.input %arg1, %1#0 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    dfg.connect.output %arg2, %2#1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>
    dfg.connect.output %arg3, %3#1 : tensor<1x4x8xf32>

    dfg.instantiate @tosa_test inputs(%0#1, %1#1) outputs(%2#0, %3#0) : (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>) -> (tensor<1x4x8xf32>, tensor<1x4x8xf32>)
}
```

## Convertion and Translation for FPGA backend
To get a working FPGA design we provide a conversion pass pipeline: `--convert-to-emitHLS`, which will lower up-to-tosa operations to scf level along with bufferizations of tensor values. Then operations in `arith`, `index`, `math`, `scf` and `dfg` will be converted to emitHLS equivalent operations. The result of this pipeline will be used in translation (i.e. `--emitHLS-generate-project`).

Let's assume the input file is named `dfg.mlir`, to get the bitstream file one only needs to execute these commands one by one:

1. Get the files needed for this project from current program
```
dfg-opt dfg.mlir --convert-to-emitHLS | dfg-translate --emitHLS-generate-project (--output-dir=/path/you/want/ --target-device="device-name")
```
2. Set up the environmental variables
```
export XILINX_PATH=/path/to/xilinx/install/
export XILINX_VERSION=version-number
```
3. Run through shell script
```
sh /path/to/run_design.sh
```
4. Check the outputs
```
tree /path/you/specified/driver
```
The driver for PYNQ is generated under directory `/path/you/specified/driver/driver`, which goal is to let user only take care of the input data.
To set up on PYNQ in JupyterNotebook or Python file, please use the following class and methods defined in the driver:

1. class `Accelerator`: this class' initializer accepts no arguments, one can instantiate one simply use `accl = Accelerator()`. Then there will be some important information printed out.
2. method `compute`: this method accepts a list, within which you should set up the correct number of inputs based on your own-defined `dfg.region` in MLIR.
3. method `get_execution_time`: this method will return a float number, which is the execution time in seconds roughly measured using `time` package.

In this work, [AMD Vivado Design Suite](https://www.amd.com/en/products/software/adaptive-socs-and-fpgas/vivado.html) version 2024.2 is tested without any problems. If one need to use lower version of the tools, please modify the version of Xilinx IPs in [this](../lib/Target/GenerateemitHLSProject/GenerateemitHLSProject.cpp#L1170) translation respectively.
